Breast Cancer Classification – Comparative Machine Learning Models

This project compares the performance of seven supervised machine learning algorithms for breast cancer diagnosis. It uses the Breast Cancer Wisconsin (Diagnostic) Dataset and evaluates each model's accuracy, precision, and recall to identify the most suitable approach for classification.


Project Structure
breast_cancer_models.ipynb
Jupyter Notebook with full code
requirements.txt # Python dependencies
 README.md # Project documentation

Models Used

The following machine learning models were trained and evaluated:

1. Naive Bayes (GaussianNB)
2. k-Nearest Neighbors (KNN)
3. Decision Tree
4. Random Forest
5. Support Vector Machine (SVM)
6. Logistic Regression
7. Multi-layer Perceptron (ANN)

Data Preprocessing

- Dataset: Breast Cancer Wisconsin (Diagnostic) from sklearn.datasets
- Missing value check
- Feature scaling using MinMaxScaler
- Train-test split (80/20)

Evaluation Metrics

To fairly compare the models, the following metrics were calculated and visualized using bar charts:

- Accuracy
- Precision
- Recall

Results Summary

A comparative bar chart was used to show the performance of all models across the above metrics. This provides a clear understanding of which model performed best in this binary classification task.

Technologies Used

- Python 3.x
- scikit-learn
- matplotlib
- Jupyter Notebook

How to Run

1.	Clone the repo:
       bash
       git clone https://github.com/maryamkhosravii/mlmodels.git
       cd breast_cancer_models
2.	Create virtual environment (optional but recommended):
       python -m venv projectvenv
       source projectvenv/bin/activate   # On Windows: projectvenv\Scripts\activate
3.	Install dependencies:
        pip install -r requirements.txt
4.	Open the Jupyter Notebook:
       jupyter notebook

 Author
github.com/maryamkhosravii
 License
This project is open source and free to use for educational purposes.




